Prerequisite packages:

   To compile and install this package, you NEED an *installed* version of
the kpathsea library.  Usually a TeTeX installation will have this.
Specifically, this means the kpathsea headers must be in your preprocessor
search path (-I) and the kpathsea library must be in your linker search path
(-L).  The kpathsea library is included in source form with the "texk"
bundle or the "web2c" bundle, available on CTAN.

   Similar remarks hold for "libz" and its headers; however, dvipdfm will
configure and compile without a recent version of libz--you just won't have
any compression.  It *requires* kpath, however.

   The same comments hold for libpng as for libz.  You *should* have a
recent version of libpng installed before trying to compile dvipdfm. It
should compile without libpng, but you will lose the ability to include
thumbnails and png images.

   You will probably want to have GhostScript installed, although it isn't
absolutely necessary.

Installation:

   Also, you will probabably want 

   1.  Unbundle the gzip'ed tar file.
   
   2.  Before compiling, set the CPPFLAGS, CFLAGS, and LDFLAGS environment
       variables with any options you want and also any -I or -L options
       required to locate kpathsea.  CPPFLAGS should probably contain -I
       pointing at the directory containing tex-file.h LDFLAGS should
       probably contain -L pointing at the directory containing
       libkpathsea.a

   3.  Type "./configure" in the dvipdfm directory along with any necessary
       options, e.g., "--prefix=PATH".  Make sure you specify the path to
       the directory containing your TeX tree root using --datadir=PATH,
       e.g., if your TeX tree in contained in /usr/share/texmf, you should
       supply the option --datadir=/usr/share to the configure script.  Note
       that the prefix and datadir cannot be set independently. They must
       belong to the same tree.  For example, you could be in trouble if you
       say something like --datadir=/usr/local/share/tetex and
       --prefix=/usr/local. The kpathsea library uses the path containing
       the executable as a hint to locating the temf texmf.cnf file.
       The executable MUST be placed in the same directory as your other
       executables that use kpathsea.

   4.  Type "make" in the dvipdfm directory.

   5.  If all goes well, type "make install" in the dvipdfm directory.

   6.  Replace the dvipdfm.def in your LaTex distribution with the one
       provided by the latest dvipdfm distribution.  This is necessary for
       .eps and .png file support.  The install script will not do this
       for you because I do not believe it is healthy to overwrite a file
       supplied by a different distribution.

   7.  Run "mktexlsr" or its equivalent depending on your TeX distribution.
       Even if you installed dvipdfm on a Unix system as an ordinary user,
       you should run mktexlsr to hash your "local" tex files.

   8.  Edit the config script in the texmf/dvipdfm directory and change to
       suit your needs.  An important configuration option is to set the
       helper application for converting PS/EPS files to PDF format.  By
       default this is setup for GhostScript.  If the idea
       of executing running a command in a shell scares you,
       comment out the line with the command string.  Alternatively,
       if you really want to disable it, comment the #define HAVE_SYSTEM
       in config.h

   I have installed this cleanly myself on Solaris 2.5 and RedHat Linux 5.1
(upgraded to tetex-0.9). It has been compiled on various platforms by
various others as part of the TeX-Live project and as part of several
Windows distributions.  I have been using it primarily under Linux.

   Please e-mail bug reports to

     Mark A. Wicks
     Kettering University
     mwicks@kettering.edu
      
Notes/Possible Problems:

   1.  The Makefile installs the "dvipdfm" and the "ebb" binaries.
       The dvipdfm binary requries kpathsea to do its font searching.
       You must already have a working TeX installation with its own
       texmf.cnf, etc.

   2.  In addition to this package, you will need PostScript Type1 fonts for
       the Computer Modern fonts and any additional fonts you want to use.
       PostScript Type1 fonts are distributed by the American Math Society.
       Information about these fonts is available at the URL

       http://www.ams.org/tex/type1-fonts.html

       and the fonts themselves (Computer Modern and AMS fonts) are available at

         ftp://ftp.ams.org/pub/tex/psfonts/

       These fonts need to be installed in a location where the kpathsea
       library can find them.

   3.  If "dvipdfm" complains that it can't find fonts or its font map file,
       read the "kpathsea" documentation about debugging path searching.  If
       you can't get kpathsea to find your texmf tree, it can always locate
       the fonts using environment variables.  If "kpathsea" can't find your
       texmf.cnf, try setting the environment variable TEXMFCNF to point to
       the directory containing texmf.cnf As a last resort, you can set
       T1FONTS to point to your ".pfb" files, and set TFMFONTS to point to
       your ".tfm" files. Use two trailing //s on the path name if you want
       that path recursively searched). 
