Installation:

   If you are trying to manually install a pre-compiled binary version of this package,
you will have to install one to three files.

   1.  Copy the executables dvipdfm and ebb (optional) to a directory in your
path.

   2.  Copy the t1fonts.map (optional) file to a dvipdfm subdirectory of
your texmf tree, e.g., /usr/share/texmf/dvipdfm/t1fonts.map

   If dvipdfm doesn't work (probably because kpathsea can't find your
texmf.cnf file), try one of the following remedies using environment variables:
   
       i)  Set TEXMFCNF to point to the directory containing your texmf.cnf
       file.
       
       or 
       
       ii) Set T1FONTS to point to the directory containing your .pfb files,
       set TFMFONTS to point to the directory containing your .tfm files,
       and set AFMFONTS to point to the directory containing your .afm files.

Notes:
   1.  The dvipdfm binary requries kpathsea to do its font searching.
       You must already have a working TeX installation with its own
       texmf.cnf, etc.

   2.  In addition to this package, you will need PostScript Type1 fonts for
       the Computer Modern fonts and any additional fonts you want to use.
       PostScript Type1 fonts are distributed by the American Math Society.
       Information about these fonts is available at the URL

       http://www.ams.org/tex/type1-fonts.html

       and the fonts themselves (Computer Modern and AMS fonts) are available at

         ftp://ftp.ams.org/pub/tex/psfonts/

       These fonts need to be installed in a location where the kpathsea
       library can find them.

   3.  If "dvipdfm" complains that it can't find fonts, read the "kpathsea"
       documentation about debugging path searching.  If you can't get
       kpathsea to find your texmf tree, it can always locate the
       fonts using environment variables.  If "kpathsea" can't find
       your texmf.cnf, try setting the environment variable TEXMFCNF
       to point to the directory containing texmf.cnf.  As an
       alternative, you can set AFMFONTS to point to your ".afm" files
       (dvipdfm needs these), set T1FONTS to point to your ".pfb" files,
       and set TFMFONTS to point to your ".tfm" files.
