October 19, 2000 - Version 0.13.2

   This release adds preliminary support for TrueType fonts.

   Also this release fixes two problems in the makefile that have been
causing some people difficulties getting dvipdfm to compile. One of these
problems was the test for compress2() (which was incorrect). The second
problem occurs because some make implementations don't honor CPPFLAGS. An
explicit rule has been added to do so.


July 25, 2000 - Version 0.13

   This release adds support for 16 bit character sets via Omega's OFM
files.  The DVI and VF code was made 16 bit clean.  I am anxious
to hear from Omega users.

   The release also changes the way encodings are written to the PDF file.
The prior method was causing compatibility problems with certain software
that tried to merge PDF files.

   Much of the Type1 font code has been rewritten for this release. The
rewritten code allows multiple encodings to be used with the same Type 1
font in the same document so that *all* glyphs (even >256) are available
from a Type 1 font.  Font subsetting has been improved. In particular, the
internal encoding is completely removed if it's not needed.

July 8, 2000 - Version 0.12.8

   The primary change in this release involves fixing file inclusion
so that it works with the older TeXfig style specials used by the
psfig macros.  Other changes include fixing several bugs in metapost
file inclusion, bugs in the parsing of colormaps of PDF files to be
embedded, and a bug that could cause characters to disappear under
certain conditions.  Work on a problem that affects use of XYPIC
is in progress.

   WARNING: THE LATEX SUPPORT FILE NAMED DVIPDFM.DEF HAS CHANGED IN VERSION
	    0.12 TO BE MORE COMPATIBLE WITH DVIPS AND OTHER DVI DRIVERS.  IT
	    CANNOT BE USED WITH EARLIER VERSIONS OF DVIDFPM. HOWEVER,
	    EARLIER VERSIONS OF DVIPDFM.DEF CAN BE USED WITH VERSION 0.12.

September 6, 1999 - Version 0.12

   Added native support for including MetaPost output.  Along with this
   comes the ability to interpret simple PostScript operators natively.
   This allows dvipdfm to process DVI files intended for dvips as long as
   they don't do anything too fancy.  The internal mini-PostScript
   interpreter is good enough to process the "rotate" commands produced by
   the standard dvips graphics driver.

   Added support for PostScript files using a helper application such as
   GhostScript.  PostScript files may be included with either the "PSfile"
   special or the "plotfile" special.

   Added support for the "standard" color specials.  Together with the above
   list, dvipdfm can now process many DVI files targets for dvips (as long
   as they use very simple PostScript commands).  PostScript code such as
   that produced by PSTricks is not supported.

   Added a configuration file for specifying default command line options.

August 21, 1999.

   WARNING:  VERSION 0.11 CHANGES THE FORMAT OF THE t1fonts.map FILE.

   The font code has been reworked in several ways.  Version 0.11 does not
require AFM files.  This is a significant improvement since AFM files are
disappearing from major distributions and repositories.  Unfortunately, this
required a change in the format of the t1fonts.map file.

   A bit of the font code has been rewritten to provide work-alikes for the
"slantfont" and "extendfont" provided by dvips.  There are several
workarounds for various bugs in Acrobat Reader involving searching for and
selecting ligatures and there's also an attempt to address the disappearing
Gamma problem.

   Version 0.11 also adds PNG and thumbnail support.
   
   Version 0.11 add support for the HyperTeX (HTML) specials for improved
DVI file portability.
   
April 8, 1999.

   Version 0.10.5 changes the rule code to use a PDF stroke instead
of filling a rectangular box.  It also omits some unecessary
font information from the PDF file for the base 14 PS fonts.
This is to produce for slightly smaller PDF files when using
these fonts.

March 30, 1999.

   NOTE: VERSION 0.10.4 CHANGES THE NAME/LOCATION OF ITS CONFIGURATION FILES!

   It also fixes a bug that caused nested virtual fonts to fail and fixes a couple of other
   fairly insignificant bugs.

   Version 0.10.0 introduced PK fonts support and support
   for TPIC special commands to allow some native graphics
   support (don't you hate distilling those .eps files).

December 30, 1998.
   Version 0.9.0 supports partial font embedding and Flate compression. The
   page tree and destination tree are shipped out as balanced trees.

December 14, 1998.
   Version 0.8.3 fixes a memory leak in the vf code found by Akiro Kakuto.
   Another change hopefully makes running ./configure a bit easier.

   Version 0.8.1 and 0.8.2 fix an overflow in the kerning code
   which occurs for large horizontal motions.

   Version 0.8 supports virtual fonts.  Much of the code has been
   reorganized and rewritten.  It is nearly an order of magnitude faster than
   earlier versions.  Version 0.8 no longer requires the kpath source
   tree.  Instead it uses an installed version of libkpathsea and its
   headers.

Nov. 28, 1998
   Specifying font encoding now supported.  There is a font map file for
   the more common PostScript fonts.

Nov. 26, 1998

   LaTeX Graphics and hyperref support is now available. See the directory
   latex-support for information and drivers.
