   This is dvipdfm, a DVI to PDF translator.  I wrote this mainly as
exercise to get at the features of PDF I wanted to experiment with. You're
probably wondering why I don't use PDFTeX.  I am a bit of a purist and I
would rather use TeX unmodified as Donald Knuth left it.
You can get it or the manual from

    http://odo.kettering.edu/dvipdfm

or if you prefer FTP:

    ftp://ftp.kettering.edu/pub/outgoing/mwicks/dvipdfm
    

   Features:
      - TeX \special's that approximate the functionality 
        of the PostScript pdfmarks used by Adobe's
	Acrobat Distiller.  Links, outlines, articles, and named
	destinations are supported, for example.

      - Ability to include PDF, JPEG, PNG, MetaPost, and self-contained
	(e.g., eps) PostScript (with help from an external program) files as
	embedded images.  For PDF files, only the first page is included.
	Resources will be embedded from the original file as necessary.
	File inclusion does not work for PDF files that store the page
	contents in several segments in an array.

      - Support for several \special standards for
        DVI file portability.

      - Support for thumbnails (with a little help from GhostScript).
	
      - Re-encoding support for PostScript fonts.  dvipdfm
        uses the same .enc files as dvips.  The mapfile is different.
	
      - Virtual font support.	
	
      - Support for arbitrary linear graphics transformations.
        Any material on the page can be scaled and rotated.

      - An internal color stack accessible via \special's.

      - Beginning of page (BOP) and end of page (EOP)
        \special's for placing arbitrary PDF stream
	graphics on every page.
	
      - Partial font embedding and Flate compression
        for reduced file size.
	
      - Balanced page tree and dest tree to improve reader
        speed on very large documents.

   Limitations (at present):

      - Contents streams consisting of multiple parts cannot be embedded.
      - All instances of the same Type1 font must have the same encoding.
     
   Additional Information:
   
   There is a dvipdfm e-mail list.  To join, send
e-mail to majordomo@gaspra.kettering.edu containing
the line:

   subscribe dvipdfm
    
   Mark A. Wicks
   Kettering University
   mwicks@kettering.edu
