$Id: README,v 1.1 2008/01/02 01:36:16 karl Exp $
install-info/tests/README

  Copyright (C) 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

  Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
  are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
  notice and this notice are preserved.

This file describes each of the numbered install-info tests.

0001: The 99% case. Installing an Info file.  Take a single entry from the 
      Info file and put it into a pre-existing section in the DIR file.
0002: Installing an Info file.  Take two entries from the Info file and put 
      it into a pre-existing section in the DIR file.
0003: Installing an Info file.  Take two entries from the Info file and put 
      it into a pre-existing section in the DIR file.  The entries are 
      described in two different `START-INFO-DIR-ENTRY' declarations.
0004: Installing an Info file.  Take two entries from the Info file and put 
      it into two pre-existing sections in the DIR file.  The entries are 
      described in two different `INFO-DIR-SECTION' and `START-INFO-DIR-ENTRY' 
      declarations.
0005: Installing an Info file.  Take two entries from the Info file and put 
      it into one pre-existing section and one non-existing section in the 
      DIR file.  The entries are described in two different `INFO-DIR-SECTION' 
      and `START-INFO-DIR-ENTRY' declarations.
0006: The 99% case, try 2.  Installing an Info file.  Take a single entry 
      from the Info file and put it into a pre-existing section in the DIR 
      file, but this time the name is not capitalized.
0007: The 99% case, try 3.  Installing an Info file.  Take a single entry 
      from the Info file and put it into a pre-existing section in the DIR 
      file, but this time the entry is not the final entry in the section.
0008: The 99% case, try 4.  Installing an Info file.  Take a single entry 
      from the Info file and put it into a pre-existing section in the DIR 
      file, but this time the entry's description spans more than one line.
0009: The 99% case, try 5.  Installing an Info file.  Take a single entry 
      from the Info file and put it into a pre-existing section in the DIR 
      file, but this time the entry's description does not start on the 
      33rd column and requires indentation.
0010: The 99% case, try 6.  Installing an Info file.  Take a single entry 
      from the Info file and put it into a pre-existing section in the DIR 
      file, but this time the entry's one line description requires 
      multi-line indentation.
0011: Installing an Info file.  Take a single entry from the Info file and 
      put it into a pre-existing section in the DIR file, but this time do 
      not indent the description.
0012: Installing an Info file.  Take a single entry from the Info file and 
      put it into a pre-existing section in the DIR file, but this time the 
      entry already exists and will be replaced.
0013: Installing an Info file.  Take a single entry from the Info file and 
      put it into a pre-existing section in the DIR file, but this time the 
      entry already exists and the --keep-old option is used to override the 
      replacement.
0014: Installing an Info file.  Take a single entry from the Info file and 
      put it into a pre-existing section in the DIR file, but this time the 
      entry already exists with a multi-line description and will be 
      replaced with a single-line description.
0015: Installing an Info file.  Take a single entry from the Info file and 
      put it into a pre-existing section in the DIR file, but this time the 
      entry already exists with a single-line description and will be 
      replaced with a multi-line description.
0016: Installing an Info file.  The Info file does not contain section or
      entry hints, and neither a section nor an entry is specified on the 
      command-line.  Installation does not occur, but is not an error.
0017: Installing an initial Info file into a minimal DIR file.
0018: Installing an initial Info file into an empty (0 byte) DIR file.  
      Installation does not occur, and is an error.
0019: Installing an initial Info file into an empty (2 byte) DIR file.  
      Installation does not occur, and is an error.
0020: Installing an Info file.  The Info file does not contain section or
      entry hints, and a section is not specified on the command-line, but
      a --description is.
0021: Installing an Info file.  The Info file does not contain section or
      entry hints, and a pre-existing --section is stated on the command-line
      along with a --description.
0022: Installing an Info file.  The Info file does not contain section or
      entry hints, and a --name is specified on the command-line.  The NAME
      starts with *, so the whole name (up to the period) is replaced.
0023: Installing an Info file.  The Info file does not contain section or
      entry hints, and a --name is specified on the command-line.  The NAME
      does not start with a *, so just the name (up to the colon) is replaced.
0024: Installing an Info file.  The Info file contains section and entry
      hints, but we override the section with a non-existing one from the 
      command-line.
0025: Installing an Info file.  The Info file contains section and entry
      hints, but we override the section with an existing one from the 
      command-line.
0026: Installing an Info file.  The Info file contains section and entry
      hints, but we override the entry with an --entry on the command-line.
0027: Installing an Info file.  The Info file contains section and entry
      hints, but we override the entry with an --entry on the command-line,
      and we also override the section with a --section on the command-line.
0028: Installing an Info file.  The Info file contains section and entry
      hints, but we override the name portion of the entry with a --name 
      on the command-line.  The NAME starts with a `*' so it replaces the
      entire name, up to the period.
0029: Installing an Info file.  The Info file contains section and entry
      hints, but we override the name portion of the entry with a --name 
      on the command-line.  The NAME does not start with a `*' so it 
      replaces the name, up to the colon and presumes the basename.
0030: Installing an Info file.  The Info file contains section and entry
      hints, but we override the description portion of the entry with a
      --description on the command-line.
0031: Installing an Info file.  The Info file contains section and entry
      hints, but we override the description and the name with
      --description and --name options on the command-line.  The NAME starts
      with a `*' so it replaces the entire name, up to the period.
0032: Installing an Info file.  The Info file contains section and entry
      hints, but we try to override the section with a regular expression 
      that does not match any existing sections in the DIR file.  The 
      overriding cannot take place, and the entry is installed in the section
      specified in the Info file.
0033: Installing an Info file.  The Info file contains an entry hint, but no
      section hint.  We try to specify the section with a --regex option on
      the command-line, but the regular expression does not match any 
      existing sections in the DIR file.
0034: Installing an Info file.  The Info file contains an entry hint, but
      no section hint, and we try to specify the section with a regular 
      expression that does not match any existing sections in the DIR file.  
      We also specify a --section on the command-line to ensure that the 
      entry will be installed in a section that we explicitly name.
0035: Installing an Info file.  The Info file contains section and entry 
      hints, but we try to specify the section with a regular expression 
      that does not match any existing sections in the DIR file.  We also 
      specify a --section on the command-line to ensure that the entry will 
      be installed in a section that we explicitly name.
0036: Installing an Info file.  The Info file contains entry and section
      hints, but try to specify the section with a --regex option on
      the command-line, and the regular expression matches an existing 
      section in the DIR file.
0037: Installing an Info file.  The Info file contains section and entry 
      hints, but we try to specify the section with a regular expression 
      that does not match any existing sections in the DIR file.  We also 
      specify a --section on the command-line to ensure that the entry will 
      be installed in a section that we explicitly name.  We use the 
      alternative Debian --section REGEX TITLE syntax instead of the normal
      GNU syntax.
0038: Installing an Info file.  The Info file does not contain section or
      entry hints, and we specify that two entries go into two sections on
      the command-line.  One section already exists, and the other doesn't.
0039: Installing an Info file.  The Info file contains section and entry
      hints, but we override the entry with an --entry option on the 
      command-line.  The entry has a multi-line description and is not 
      indented.
0040: Installing an Info file.  The Info file contains section and entry
      hints, but we override the entry with --name and --description options
      on the command-line.  The entry is not indented.
0041: Installing an Info file.  The Info file contains section and entry
      hints, and we're installing the entry into a gzipped DIR file.
0042: Installing an Info file.  The Info file contains section and entry
      hints for two entries in two sections.  Both of the sections do not 
      already exist in the DIR file.  The sections will be added prior to 
      all other sections due to the alphabetic ordering of section names.
0043: Installing an Info file.  The Info file contains section and entry 
      hints, and we're going to install the new section admist many other 
      sections.  E.g. instead of always at the very bottom or at the very 
      top.
0044: The 99% case.  Removing an Info file.  The Info file is responsible
      for a single entry in the DIR file.
0045: Removing an Info file.  The Info file is responsible for many entries 
      in the DIR file.
0046: Removing an Info file.  We no longer have the Info file, so we 
      specify --remove-exactly to remove it instead.
0047: Removing an Info file.  The Info file is responsible for the final
      entry in the DIR file.  The section also gets removed.
0048: Removing an Info file.  The Info file is responsible for the final
      entry in the DIR file, but we want to keep the section heading, so
      we specify --keep-old.
0049: Removing an Info file.  The Info file is not responsible for any
      entries in the DIR file.  A warning is issued, but it isn't an error.
0050: Removing an Info file.  The Info file is responsible for a single
      entry in the gzipped DIR file.
