T1UTILS
=======

   t1utils is a collection of simple type-1 font manipulation
programs. Together, they allow you to convert between PFA (ASCII) and
PFB (binary) formats, disassemble PFA or PFB files into human-readable
form, reassemble them into PFA or PFB format. Additionally you can
extract font resources from a Macintosh font file or create a
Macintosh Type 1 font file from a PFA or PFB font.

There are currently six programs:

t1ascii		converts PFB files to PFA format.

t1binary	converts PFA files to PFB format.

t1disasm	disassembles a type-1 font (PFA or PFB format) into a
		raw, human-readable text form for subsequent hand
		editing, tweaking, hint fixing, etc...

t1asm		assembles type-1 font into PFA or PFB format from 
		human-readable form produced by t1disasm.

t1unmac		extracts POST resources from a Macintosh type-1 file
		(ATM/Laserwriter) into PFA or PFB format for use outside
		the Macintosh environment. The Macintosh file should be
		stored in MacBinary, AppleSingle, AppleDouble, or BinHex
		format, or as a raw resource fork. Note that t1unmac does
		not have to run on a Macintosh, but makes Macintosh type-1
		fonts available to Unix machines and PCs.

t1mac		creates a Macintosh Type 1 file from a PFA or PFB-format
		Type 1 font. Writes the Macintosh file in MacBinary,
		AppleSingle, AppleDouble, or BinHex format, or as a raw
		resource fork. WARNING: This will not suffice to use the
		new font on a Macintosh, as Macintoshes cannot read raw
		Type 1 fonts. You will need to create a font suitcase
		containing bitmap fonts if you do not have such a suitcase
		for the font already. T1utils cannot help you do this.

Installation
------------

   You need an ANSI C compiler, such as gcc.

   Just type `./configure', then `make'. `make install' will build and
install the utilities and their manual pages.

   `./configure' accepts the usual options. See `INSTALL' for more
details. The most commonly used option is `--prefix', which can be used
to install the utilities in a place other than /usr/local.

Copyright and license
---------------------

   The original t1utils were (c) 1992 I. Lee Hetherington. Changes
since version 1.2 are (c) 1998-2013 Eddie Kohler. Distribution is
under the Click LICENSE, a BSD-like license described in the LICENSE
file in this directory.

   Note that these tools should not be used to illegally copy type-1
font programs. Typeface design is an intricate art that should be
rewarded.

Eddie Kohler
ekohler@gmail.com

I. Lee Hetherington
ilh@lcs.mit.edu
